In this hands on activity,
we will be performing queries in Splunk.
First, we will open a browser and
login to Splunk.
Next, we will import a CSV file and
search its contents.
We will see how to filter fields for
specific values and
also perform statistical
calculations on the data.
Let's begin.
First, open a web browser and
navigate to the Splunk web page.
We'll enter localhost:8000.
Next we'll log in to Splunk using
admin and the default password.
Next, we'll import a CSV file into Splunk.
We'll click on Add Data.
Upload We'll click on Select File.
And we'll choose the census.csv
file that we downloaded.
Click Next.
On the left,
it should say source type csv.
If it does not, click on the button and
go down to Structured and select csv.
In this table,
we see a preview of the data.
You should see the column names
of the CSV file at the top.
Click on Next.
Review.
And Submit.
Now that the file has been imported
successfully, click on Start Searching.
In the search box,
it fills in the default query,
source="cencus.csv" the host name and
sourcetype="csv"
We could change these fields
to search other files or
other data types if we
imported those into Splunk.
Now let's search census.csv for
particular values in the fields.
Let's search for all the data
where the state is California.
We'll enter STNAME="California".
You'll see the results down here.
You could search for
other states by using or.
For example, we can add OR
STNAME="Alaska".
This will search for
state names equal to California or Alaska.
We can add conditions
to our query as well.
Let's search for state equals California
whose population was over one million.
We'll do this by saying
STNAME = "California"
CENSUS2010POP > 1000000.
Can limit the results to one or
more columns.
You do this by adding pipe table
CTYNAME to the end of our query.
In Spunk queries, the pipe command is used
to send the outputs from the first part of
the query into the next.
You can also show more than
one column from the output.
If we add a comma CENSUS2010POP
to the end of this,
we'll see both the city name and
the population.
You can also see a visualization of this
data by clicking on the Visualization tab.
At the bottom, on the x-axis,
we see the county names, and
the y values are the population numbers.
Now let's perform some
statistics on this data.
We'll begin by counting the number of
records where the state is California.
You can do this by saying
STNAME="California" pipe stats count.
Now switch back to the statistics tab,
see the result here
Now let's see the total population for
California.
You can replace count
with sum(CENUS2010POP)
You can also calculate
the average population.
We'll replace sum with mean.